# TestNG Samples

## Grouping Tests

In `groups.xml` TestNG config, @Test annotation is used with the groups attribute to categorize tests. For instance, testGoogleGet_Success is part of the "p0" and "unit" groups.


The testng.xml file then specifies which groups to run. For example, the "ClusterTests" test runs all tests in the "cluster" in.zeta.testngsamples.group. Multiple groups can be included in a single test run, as seen in "ClusterAndP0Tests", which runs all tests in both "cluster" and "p0" groups.

Run the following to test on local : 
`mvn test  -Dsurefire.suiteXmlFiles=~/cce-testng/src/test/resources/groups.xml`

## Using Parameters - @Parameters

`@Parameters` annotation can be used to pass in params. The in.zeta.testngsamples.parameters are defined in the `.xml` file and can be used to pass data to tests.
In `hardcodedParams.xml`, the `@Parameters` annotation is used to pass URLs to the test methods

Run the following to test on local : `mvn test -Dsurefire.suiteXmlFiles=src/test/resources/hardcodedParams.xml`

## Using Parameters - Json DataProvider

In the `JsonParametersTests` class, TestNG's `@DataProvider` annotation is used to supply data to the test method.

The data is read from a JSON file kept at `resources/params.json`.
The `urlProvider` method in `JsonParametersTests` is a data provider. 
It reads a JSON file specified by the "config" system property and returns a 2D Object array containing URLs.


The `TestConfig` class represents the structure of the JSON file

More at : https://www.lambdatest.com/blog/how-to-use-dataproviders-in-testng-with-examples/
---
### Samples

Run all tests

> mvn test

Run all tests tagged with p0 or p1

> mvn test -Dgroups=p0,p1

Run jsonParams suite 

> mvn test -Dconfig=src/test/resources/params.json -Dsurefire.suiteXmlFiles=src/test/resources/jsonParams.xml

Run mvnParams suite

> mvn test -DhttpbinBaseUrl=https://httpbin.org/get -DgoogleBaseUrl=https://www.google.com -Dsurefire.suiteXmlFiles=src/test/resources/mvnParams.xml


---
## Reports
All test runs have their associated results present at `target/surefire-reports` folder
Both `.xml` and `.html` reports are generated by default

For every TestNG suite, a separate report is generated per in.zeta.testngsamples.group

For example, for the suite : 
```
<!DOCTYPE suite SYSTEM "https://testng.org/testng-1.0.dtd" >
<suite name="Suite1" verbose="1" >
    <test name="UnitTests">
        <groups>
            <run>
                <include name="unit"/>
            </run>
        </groups>
        <classes>
            <class name="in.zeta.testngsamples.parameters.JsonParametersTests"/>
        </classes>
    </test>
    <test name="P0Tests">
        <groups>
            <run>
                <include name="p0"/>
            </run>
        </groups>
        <classes>
            <class name="in.zeta.testngsamples.parameters.JsonParametersTests"/>
        </classes>
    </test>
</suite>
```
Two separate reports will be generated when you run the suite: one for the "unit" in.zeta.testngsamples.group and one for the "p0" in.zeta.testngsamples.group.

The reports will be located in the `target/surefire-reports` directory and will be named `TEST-in.zeta.testngsamples.parameters.JsonParametersTests.UnitTests.xml` and `TEST-in.zeta.testngsamples.parameters.JsonParametersTests.P0Tests.xml`.
